# Homelessness in Cambridge, Massachusetts

Both effectively serving the needs of people experiencing homelessness and productively combating homelessness itself as a social ill require an understanding of the makeup of the homeless community. This app seeks to promote better understanding of the homeless community local to Cambridge, Massachusetts by providing three key areas of interest. The app delves into demographic changes over time, such as the growth in recent years of the age cohort of homeless 18-24 year olds. It investigates demographic differences between the population in different living situations, such as the substantial overrepresentation of women in transitional shelters relative to women in emergency shelters, unsheltered women, and women experiencing homelessness as a whole. Finally, it explores how the situation in Cambridge compares to and contrast with the national trends in other parts of the United States of America, such as the consistently higher levels of veteran homelessness on the West Coast.

This app draws on data collected by Cambridge government regarding homelessness in the city from 2012-2017. Every year a count of individuals experiencing homelessness is taken on a single night in January. Demographic information about the individuals counted is also collected but is recorded in aggregate for the given year. Cambridge sends its annual homelessness data to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. This app also uses data from all cities that submitted to HUD from 2013 to 2017.
